German Chancellor Olaf Schultz is in
Washington for talks with lawmakers and
President Biden on the agenda are the
Israel Hamas war and Russia's invasion
of Ukraine ahead of his trip the
chancellor gave a brief statement in
which he urged the EU and us to do more
to help Ukraine in its fight against
Russia the US Senate remains divided on
releasing uh more funds last week the EU
approved a 50 billion Euro Aid package
for Ukraine following months of
wrangling Chancellor Schultz appealed to
lawmakers in Congress to put their
differences
aside the developments that we're
currently observing in the US Senate are
a positive
sign we hope a decision will be made
soon I don't want to speculate on how
long it will
take it may take a few more
attempts but it would be good if a
decision came
soon this is about sending a big
important and clear message to the
Russian president and it's about active
help for
Ukraine Chief political editor mner is
standing by so aid for Ukraine is going
to be the focus of this meeting what can
we expect in regard to
that well the German chancer is arriving
in a very volatile week here in domestic
politics that is increasingly spilling
out into the world having a direct
effect potentially on Ukraine and that's
of course what Olaf Schultz is concerned
about what is EU partners are concerned
about he was very happy that he was able
to present as uh in time a success from
the European and having secured a 50
billion EUR worth of funding from
Europeans but it's the United States who
is the biggest um assistant to Ukraine
in this fight against Russia
particularly militarily there Germany is
the second largest so you have the first
and second largest um Ally in military
terms sitting down today and working out
out on how to best help Ukraine more
into the future with the US experiencing
that political domestic squeeze that
comes as a direct order from Donald
Trump who is slowing down and
potentially bringing to a grinding halt
The Continuous Flow of us assistance to
Ukraine so Olaf Schultz knows he's
taking home some homework that's for
sure that Europeans will have to do more
and aid for Israel and Taiwan will also
be on the agenda tell us more about
that yes these of course are also two
key conflicts we will also see Israel's
two staunchest allies sitting down here
today and both we just heard it um US
President Biden directly criticizing
Israel um for its military campaign
being quote over the toop also calling
for a sustained um Sease of fighting
whatever that means in practical terms
uh so both seem to be pretty much on the
same page there which we've heard uh
from the German side requires a lot of
coordination as well and Taiwan is
looming on the horizon as the next
potential upset to a world order to a
relative stability that is being
attacked from all sides um here both
leaders will also be speaking about
China of which both are economically
also highly dependent so it's all
interconnected but we're seeing more and
more key potential conflict areas that
could upset also the stability of these
two countries and M on a lighter note
Schultz also met with what he calls his
doppelganger tell us a little bit more
about the man who makes the chance or
smile well um
he he actually isn't really known as
very much of someone who has a
particular sense of humor uh but it
looks that Olaf Schultz seems to be
discovering that when he heads to the
United States but that certainly can't
gloss over the fact that we're heading
into various serious talks and very
serious times here in DC okay uh Mel
kufner thank you so much and uh we have
to say that uh Chris Coons does indeed
look a lot like Chancellor
Schultz DW's Washington bureau chief
iness pole takes a look now at some of
Schultz's previous visits to the White
House and where German American
relations could be heading in the
future when US President Joe Biden and
German Chancellor Olaf Schultz meet in
Washington the stakes can hardly be
higher the danger of the conflict in the
Middle East escalating into a
configration seems to be increasing
every day the Russian aggression against
Ukraine shows no sign of
stopping Biden calls Schultz when he
wants to talk to Europe particularly on
the two big crises Ukraine and the
Middle East Schultz just helped get a 50
billion Euro Aid package for Keef across
the political Finishing Line at an EU
Summit in Brussels and just like the
United States Germany is staunchly at
Israel's side the US president and the
German Chancellor will come together to
reaffirm their strong support for
Ukraine when Olaf Schulz will be meeting
Joe Biden here in the Oval Office right
behind me he will not only be meeting
president who is unable to get any
further funding for Ukraine through
Congress but also president who is just
at the beginning of an election cycle on
which end we might see another president
in the White House who promised to cut
all funding for Ukraine if Donald Trump
wins this visit of a German chancellor
at the White House might be the last one
for quite some time the former president
cares little about the transatlantic
relationship and even less about a good
good relationship with Germany putting
the future of us German corporation on
the thorniest global issues very much in
doubt